# 🔗 Linker

A linker is a program that takes one or more object (`.obj`) files generated by a compiler and combines them into a single executable program. 

:::warning
Compiler errors start with `C` and linker errors start with `LNK`.
:::

:::info
As long as the function is not used, the linker will not include it in the final executable.
:::

## 🚀 Entry Point
The entry point is the first function that is executed when the program starts. In C++, it is the `main` function by default. 

## ❌ Linking Errors

### ⚠️ Undefined Reference
When the linker can't find the definition of a function or a variable that is used in the program, it will throw an error. 

```cpp
void undefinedFunction();

void function(){
    // This function is not defined anywhere. 
    // LNK2019: unresolved external symbol
    undefinedFunction(); // if it would be commented. Code would compile.
}
```

## 🔒 Static Keyword

The `static` keyword, when used in a function declaration, restricts the visibility of the function to the file in which it is defined. This means that the function cannot be called from other files, even if they include the header file where the function is declared. This is useful when you want to keep a function private to a file and prevent it from being used elsewhere.

Here's an example:

```cpp
// File: main.cpp

static void someFunction() {
    Log("Hello"); // This function is not defined anywhere.
}

int main() {
    someFunction(); // This will work.
    return 0;
}
```

```cpp
// File: anotherFile.cpp

extern void someFunction(); // Trying to declare the function from main.cpp

int anotherFunction() {
    someFunction(); // This will throw an error because someFunction is static in main.cpp and can't be accessed here.
    return 0;
}
```

In the above example, `someFunction` is declared as `static` in `main.cpp`, so it can only be called within `main.cpp`. If we try to declare it in `anotherFile.cpp` using `extern` and call it, it will throw an error.

## 🌐 Extern Keyword

The `extern` keyword is used to declare a variable or function in another file. This is useful when you want to use a function or variable defined in one file in another file.

Here's an example:

```cpp
// File: main.cpp

void someFunction() {
    Log("Hello"); // This function is not defined anywhere.
}

int main() {
    return 0;
}
```

```cpp
// File: anotherFile.cpp

extern void someFunction(); // Declaring the function from main.cpp

int anotherFunction() {
    someFunction(); // This will work because someFunction is not static in main.cpp and can be accessed here.
    return 0;
}
```

In this example, `someFunction` is not declared as `static` in `main.cpp`, so it can be declared in `anotherFile.cpp` using `extern` and called successfully.

## ✏️ Inline Keyword
If the function is defined as `inline`, it will be included in the final executable. 

```cpp
inline void someFunction(){
    cout << "Hello";
};
```
When included, only the body of the function will be included (`cout << "Hello";`).